‘The Secret Lives of Mormon Wives’ star shares in this week’s PEOPLE cover story that she will star as Sandra Dee in musical about the life of Dee’s former “Dream Lover,” Bobby Darin. Whitney Leavitt is headed back to Broadway. In this week’s PEOPLE cover story, The Secret Lives of Mormon Wives star, 33, reveals that she will return to the stage this winter to star in Just in Time, following a three-month run in Chicago that broke the production’s box office record. “I’m so excited,” says Leavitt, who will play teen idol Sandra Dee in the hit musical, which traces the unbelievable true story of singer Bobby Darin before his untimely death from a heart attack when he was just 37. Tony Award nominee Jeremy Jordan is currently leading Just in Time as Darin. Leavitt will star opposite him at New York City’s Circle in the Square Theatre for a limited six-week engagement beginning Tuesday, Dec. 1 through Sunday, Jan. 10, 2027. Leavitt, who is leaving The Secret Lives of Mormon Wives after season 5, says her journey back to Broadway began with a visit from Jonathan Groff, who originated the lead role of Darin in the musical when it premiered in April 2025.  “He’s the best of all time,” Leavitt says of Groff, 41. “One night, the Chicago stage manager tells me, ‘Oh, Jonathan Groff is here’... that immediately put a huge stressor on me, but it also motivated me. I wasn’t able to see him after the show, so I was like, ‘Okay, let me go see you in Just in Time.’ Phenomenal. Love watching that man perform.” Her full-circle moment came only a few months later. “I got an audition for the role [of Sandra Dee],” she says. “We did it, we studied hard, and here we are. And I cannot wait to be a part of that show.” Leavitt’s time starring as Roxie Hart in Chicago, originally also planned as a six-week run beginning in February 2026, ultimately extended to three months. During her run, the production achieved its highest weekly box office gross in its 29-year history — a milestone she says is “definitely validating,” though she’s quick to emphasize that it was a team effort. “I’m going to tell you right now, that cast and crew, it was a group effort to be able to do that because we all pushed really hard to market it,” she says. “How can we find creative ways to get people to come and see the show? I’m so happy I got to be a part of that.” As for how long she’ll be playing Dee, Darin’s former wife — who Leavitt affectionally describes as “a movie star” who “loves pink” — she says she’s “going to see how it goes.” “A lot of times you have a runtime, and then you get to decide, ‘Do you want to stay or do you want to go?’ I think it’s too hard to tell right now. I don’t know what’s going to be going on in my life. But I’ll for sure at least be there for six weeks.” Now, Leavitt is preparing to navigate the logistics of a bicoastal life. She and her husband, Conner Leavitt, recently put down roots near their families in Utah with their three children — Sedona, 6, Liam, 4, and Billy, 1 — but she’s excited for what’s ahead. “I do get bored easily, unfortunately, but it also motivates me,” she says. “I just think it’s always been a part of me. I don’t really have plans on stopping, and I just want to keep going… I don’t plan on leaving the Broadway world anytime soon.” Just in Time is one of Broadway’s most recent hits. Developed and directed by Tony Award winner Alex Timbers, the musical began performances in March 2025, and opened to critical acclaim the following month. It’s the only musical of the 2024-2025 season to have recouped its capitalization. Featuring a book by Tony winner Warren Leight (Side Man) and Isaac Oliver (Intimacy Idiot, The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel), Just in Time is set to a score of Darin’s catalog of classics, including “Beyond the Sea,” “Mack the Knife,” “Splish Splash” and “Dream Lover.” The immersive musical transforms the theater into a swinging nightclub, where Jordan plays a version of himself telling the story of Darin’s meteoric rise from teen idol to global sensation. In addition to Jordan, Just in Time currently stars Carrie St. Louis as Dee, as well as Olivia Holt, Debbie Gravitte, Joe Barbara, Emily Bergl, Lance Roberts, Caesar Samayoa, Christine Cornish, Julia Grondin, Valeria Yamin, Jaime Foord, Tari Kelly, Matt Magnusson, Jeffrey Schecter and Tristen Buettel. Tickets for Just in Time are on sale now. For more on Whitney Leavitt, pick up this week’s issue of PEOPLE, on newsstands Friday.