The author hopes young readers identify with that sense of feeling a little out of place between two worlds. Mike Chen is sharing a new magical story. The acclaimed author, known for novels like Light Years from Home and his work for franchises like Star Wars and Marvel, is releasing his debut young adult novel this year. Of Sorcery and Science, out this fall from Running Press, centers on Andy Lao, a teen who has just had the adventure of a lifetime. Months earlier, Andy accidentally entered a magical portal, became a mage and saved the realm, but no one at home believed him. Now, Andy is living a double life as both The Chosen One and a high schooler, struggling through math and science. But when a mysterious girl comes through the portal claiming she’s The Chosen One, and that Andy put the realm at risk, they must work together to save it with science. I’ve always loved thinking about what happens to characters after their big adventure, because we’ve all faced that letdown when returning to normal life, right? Chen says of the novel’s inception. Of Sorcery and Science lets me play with that to the most extreme example, with a high schooler whose heroic quest in a magical realm still doesn’t help him prepare for college applications or trig tests. Chen also hopes the book is relatable for young readers who may related to Andy’s journey. For teen readers, I hope they can identify with that sense of feeling a little out of place between two worlds (metaphorically or real!) — and I hope they come away realizing that their greatest strength comes from navigating those worlds their own way, he says. Read an excerpt from Of Sorcery and Science below. Julia had so little mana left, what was the worst that could happen? I steeled myself against possibly needing to push my parents out of the way of a fireball. You go ahead, my dad said. We respect you. You don’t need to join me in prayer, she said, though my dad bowed his head anyway, shortly followed by my mom. We sat and looked at each other, mutual shrugs each way, and then Julia began mumbling. I heard bits and pieces through her lowered voice, and caught the distinctive bits of the Heal incantation. Which — considering that the last time she tried it, a Magic Missile got launched into the sky — might not have been the best idea. She finished the incantation, and a moment after the final words came out, the extra green mana drained from her fingertips. Really, everything about her demeanor changed, like she’d just woken from a nap. Maybe green mana only backfired on the initial spell, but residual energy processed as planned. That didn’t really make much sense to me, but if it worked, it worked. Okay, I’m good. Thanks, she said, picking up the pizza. I’m hungry. I haven’t had pizza in a while. Julia took one bite, then two, letting out an mmm as she chomped down. On the other side of the table, my parents continued to sit with heads bowed. For the next few seconds, the only sound came from Julia eating way too loudly. Yet, what followed was . . . Well, I’d never seen anything like it. It started like a repressed sneeze from my dad, a sort of explosive squeak from his sinuses. Julia even said bless you through her pizza. Except when I looked at him, his head stayed bowed, his eyes squeezed shut tighter than I’d ever seen, and the impossible happened. My often silent, very stoic dad cried. Not a lot. This was, like, several drops leaking out from the corners of his eyes. His shoulders shook, and soon my mom followed suit too. Andy, he finally said, his voice with a very unusually low gravel, do you know why we came to America? Uh . . . I started while meeting Julia’s gaze, my wide stare giving away that none of this was expected. Because — You have never seen poverty until you see the slums back home, he said. Nothing in America comes close. America has its problems. Too much time arguing about culture. But it comes with opportunity. I wish more Americans realize that. They take it for granted. My parents almost never talked about politics, except about the local school board elections. They certainly never talked about, well, culture. Sometimes, my mom said, we worry that you take everything for granted. Everything we did was to give this life to you. You can’t let opportunity pass you by. Grades are so important. We worry so much that you don’t see it. They worried. No, that wasn’t it. Julia mouthed the word fear at me. Her attempt to drain the last bit of magic had backfired into a Fear spell. And now my parents experienced their worst fears: They talked about their feelings with me. Julia shook her hands at me, then gestured for me to say something. Probably a good idea. I didn’t need my parents to run out screaming like what happened when she cast it on those lacrosse players. I understand, I said slowly, mostly so I could stall and come up with something brilliant to snap them out of it. I know you had hard lives growing up. I . . . do appreciate that. Now Julia’s hands waved in a rolling motion, and I realized that I’d never actually cast a Fear spell, so I had no idea how someone was supposed to break the spell. What was the one thing I could say to my parents at this moment of them being, like, actual vulnerable humans? Non-Asian parents in TV shows talked about this stuff all the time, yet my parents were living stereotypes. In just a few sentences, I understood why much better. I thought about parents and teens on TV and what they said to one another before they gave deep, meaningful hugs. I’m sorry for disappointing you, I finally said. And just like that, my parents straightened up. My dad sniffled, and my mom wiped her eyes. Bad allergy day, she said, before looking at Julia. So, what you write your USC application essay on? Excerpted from OF SORCERY AND SCIENCE by Mike Chen. Reprinted with permission from Running Press, an imprint of Hachette Book Group, Inc. Copyright © 2026 by Mike Chen. Of Sorcery and Science will be published on Sept. 8 and is available for preorder now, wherever books are sold.
