The Broadway adaptation of the 2001 movie will play its final performance on the Great White Way on Aug. 30. Moulin Rouge! The Musical is going out with a bang on Broadway. Equally explosive, apparently, are its audience members. Kelsie Watts, who currently stars as Satine in the Tony Award-winning musical, said in an Instagram video on Tuesday, Aug. 11, that during a recent performance, “a fight almost broke out” between front-seat viewers. “I’m here to tell you the story,” she began, addressing the camera. “Apparently the front row and the second row had beefed the entire show,” Watts recalled of the night in question, shouting out the ushers and security team at the Al Hirschfeld Theatre, where Moulin Rouge! The Musical is playing until its closing performance on Aug. 30. “I guess the people in the second row were talking too loud; they were kicking chairs,” the actress said. “And keep in mind, these people are in their 50s. We’re not talking about little kids.” At a point in the show when Watts approaches the audience up close, when “you can see up my nostrils,” she quipped, “They are still, ‘Talk, talk, talk, talk, talk.’ We can hear everything, y’all. And not only is it distracting to us — it’s our job to work past it, so I get that — but you have so many people around you that have paid really good money to also experience this show.” A woman in the front row “stands up, turns around and starts yelling over her seat,” Watts recalled. “All of this is happening while I have this ginormous hat on my head. I’m in this little muff and this dress that I’m just trying to make sure I don’t lose my balance in.” After making eye contact with a nearby usher, Watts recalled moving on with the show like normal. “But let me tell you, it took everything in me to not stop that show and be like, ‘What are y’all doing?’ ” she said. “I guess eventually the lady in the second row was put into a timeout in the lobby,” Watts added. “So I think this is a good learning experience that, should we ever go to another theater show, maybe, maybe, we just are respectful to the rest of the audience members around us.” She concluded, “I would have been just as frustrated if I had paid hundreds of dollars to sit in the front row of a closing show that I was in love with, to then just be bothered by people behind me kicking my seat and yelling just to be difficult. PEOPLE has reached out to a rep for Moulin Rouge! The Musical. Watts, a Texas native who competed on Season 19 of NBC’s The Voice, made her Broadway debut in February 2025 as Jane Seymour in the musical Six. She stars alongside Christian Douglas, Eric Anderson, André Ward and more in Moulin Rouge! The Musical. Tony winner Aaron Tveit, who originated the lead role of Christian, returns to the show for 15 performances later this month. The musical is based on the 2001 movie starring Nicole Kidman and Ewan McGregor. It won 10 Tony Awards in 2021, including Best Musical. Directed by Alex Timbers with a book by John Logan, the production features a score that incorporates over 70 pop hits from the 1940s to the 2010s, plus “Come What May,” the ballad from the film. Tickets for Moulin Rouge! The Musical are on sale now.



