The musician opens up to PEOPLE about returning to the stage for Elle World and the challenges she faced with her mixed-race identity. Amid the sea of blonde pop stars in the early aughts like Britney Spears, Christina Aguilera, Mandy Moore and Jessica Simpson came Hoku. If you were a millennial between 2000 and 2001, it would have been near-impossible to be unfamiliar with Hoku’s first single Another Dumb Blonde or her second bubbly juggernaut Perfect Day, which became the infectious intro song to the 2001 hit comedy Legally Blonde. But not long after releasing her self-titled debut album, just as the Hawaiian-born singer was blossoming as a pop star, she walked away from the spotlight. I did mourn that things were not different, and I mourned that around 21, 22, my dream was over... but now I just feel so much gratitude because I stepped out, Hoku, now 45, says, adjusting the flower from her ear on a Zoom call from her home in Los Angeles. Out of the public eye, Hoku (born Hoku Christian Ho) spent the last two decades raising her three kids — a 17-year-old daughter, a 15-year-old son and a 12-year-old son — living a quiet life and quietly writing music. For a moment in 2018, she returned with the Christian EP Called by Name and the single Greater in 2020. But she’s since stepped back from her faith as well. It stopped feeling authentic, she says. In June, for the first time in years, Hoku made a rare appearance and performance at Elle World ahead of the premiere of the prequel series Elle. And now, she’s eyeing a comeback. Below, Hoku opens up to PEOPLE about why she left the music industry, leaving her faith behind and the surprising celebrity fans she’s made over the years. \n\nPEOPLE: How did Legally Blonde and its use of Perfect Day change your life?\n\nHOKU: Perfect Day came at the end of what became the end of my music career, but it was this lovely little period where the song was really connecting with people. I was touring it, and then in the movie it was a bit of an afterthought for my label. There was a lot of like, Well, this movie’s probably not going to be that. It was kind of low-budget; it was a female-led movie. But it ended up being the most defining song of my career, and I feel so thankful for that. The movie itself is such a special movie and so in line with who I am as a person. It feels really good to have that be such a big part of my legacy.\n\nPEOPLE: In the early aughts it felt like you were really gaining momentum and then you disappeared. What happened between you and your record label after the release of Perfect Day?\n\nHOKU: Perfect Day was meant to be the lead single for my follow-up album, and it was associated with the movie. The movie did a lot more than people were expecting. So I was touring it, performing it live, but behind the scenes, there were conversations about my next album. And by then, my label and I ... specifically one person at the label; he was a creep. He was exactly one of those people that you hear about, and he was really in charge of everything with my music. There had been a lot of pressure from everyone — him included — to sexualize my image, be willing to put out the vibe that I was down for whatever to all these radio people. I loved the music. I loved the singing. I loved the performing. It had been my dream, but there was just this hunted feeling; this I’m prey amongst predators kind of feeling. That was just how the industry worked back then. So, I was already kind of thinking to myself, I don’t know if this is worth it for me anymore. Then, this guy made an ultimatum, and was like, You will do X, Y, and Z. I’m sick of you teasing me enough, or I’m going to bury your record. And I was like, Okay. I got up, walked out of that meeting and that was it. That was the end of that. The spin I put on it was that it wasn’t in line with my faith, which at the time was very true. I was a very devoted Christian at that time. I’ve since stepped out of my faith, but that was true to some degree. It wasn’t something I was comfortable with. I was 18, 19, 20, 21. I was just barely coming into my own sexuality at that point. [I] didn’t feel like marketing that to the masses, but ultimately it did come down to an ultimatum. So I walked away.\n\n PEOPLE: From what I understand, you were also married at the time, and the record label wanted you to pretend that you weren’t. Tell me about that.\n\nHOKU: Yes. That was the big secret of my music career — that I was married the whole time! I’m still married to him. We still love each other very much. We just celebrated 27 years. I realized that’s not normal for young married people to be like that. But I do feel really lucky. At the time it felt so unjust. But in retrospect, I do understand a little bit of, We’re not going to market that this teenybopper pop star is married. What bothered me was that there was this guy [at] the label [that] was like, You need to get divorced. How long ago did you get married? Can we annul this? That was one of the first meetings we had. Things just never really improved from there. I wouldn’t travel or tour without [my husband] because he very much felt like my protector during a time when I was feeling very hunted, like I was saying. They ended up being like, Okay, well, we might as well give him a job. So then he was working alongside my tour manager during my last summer that I was touring. He ended up getting into the business side of things, but in the beginning he was just my guy. (PEOPLE has reached out to Universal Music, the parent company of Interscope/Geffen Records, for comment.).\n\nPEOPLE: You ended up walking away from your pop career. At this juncture, do you have any regrets about that?\n\nHOKU: Not at this juncture. I did then. Not that I would have stayed in the environment I was in, but I did mourn that things were not different, and I mourned that around 21, 22, my dream was over. This thing I’d worked for my whole life since I was 11 and singing on my dad’s show … there was a lot of mourning throughout in the interim time, but now I just feel so much gratitude because I stepped out. I was able to raise my family in peace because I had gotten out of the game before anything got too out of hand. I left before the whole paparazzi tabloid culture was really a thing. I’m watching all these girls just getting out of limos at parties, trying to go grocery shopping, having these purposely unflattering photos taken of them and that whole critical attitude towards women’s bodies; I was able to sidestep that. I just got to go live my life in relative peace, so that was nice. I don’t regret it at all now. \n\nPEOPLE: In the early 2000s, the typical mainstream pop star was white and blonde for the most part. As a multiracial artist who is a part of the AAPI community, were there any pressures you felt at the time?\n\n HOKU: I felt like I’m very white-passing. I’m blonde; I have pale skin. Everyone in my family is not. I’m the white sheep of my family. So, I’ve always had a little bit of a feeling already that I don’t belong in my culture. I don’t look associated with the culture I identify most with, which would be my local Hawaiian and Asian mixed culture that exists there. I grew up feeling very connected to that, but also having people yell at me in the water like, Hey haole, get off my wave. I’m like, I’m one of you. So there’s always been a little bit of sadness around not being able to be more visually connected to my culture. There is always a little bit of imposter syndrome, this low-key sense of, Gosh, look how pale I am. Look how blonde I am. Maybe I don’t have a right to represent my culture. Maybe I don’t have a right to be saying that I am Asian or Hawaiian. But that was also very much a part of my marketing. It was a lot about [being] Hawaiian because my dad is very associated with Hawaii, and less about [being] Asian, even though my dad raised us very Asian. His dad was a Chinese chef. What I felt the most was: Is it okay that I want to represent this? Am I allowed? But also I was very proud of the fact that my Hawaiianness was on the forefront, and that I was able to represent home. Because the people of Hawaii were so excited that one of their own was there and making it in the industry. There’s probably, at that time, this weird, subconscious sense of imposter syndrome around claiming parts of my ethnicity that I didn’t visually represent in my mind. I think now [that] I looked more Asian than I thought at the time. As I look back at my life, I’m like — it was just the coloring and the kind of childhood weirdness that I hadn’t really processed yet.\n\nPEOPLE: That’s really challenging. Thank you for sharing that.\n\nHOKU: It’s weird. It’s been an interesting journey throughout my life. Because even after I walked away from my pop music, there was a hot minute where I was trying to do some acting. And I just remember one of the roles I lost out on was the role Hilary Duff got in Cheaper by the Dozen. I was far along, and once she got the part, I was like, Well, duh, she looks like Bonnie Hunt and Steve Martin’s daughter. I don’t really. I wasn’t getting called in for Asian roles or Hawaiian roles; I was getting called in for these [roles like] You’re the cheerleader that gets killed. You’re the bimbo at the party. And then I was just like, Well, I don’t fit here either. I never felt like I really fit, and I feel like it’s actually been the interim time that I’ve really made peace with the fact that, no, I am these things. This is my culture, these are my people, this is who I am. I’ve made that journey over the years, but definitely had not at 18, 19, 20, 21. \n\nPEOPLE: Your highest-charting single was Another Dumb Blonde and not Perfect Day. Does that remain surprising for you?\n\nHOKU: It doesn’t [surprise me] because of where the industry was at the time. It was the end of the CD era and the beginning of the downloads era. [With] Another Dumb Blonde, I kept being told, Oh yeah, it’s got this many CDs sold, but then it has this many downloads on Napster or whatever. The idea was if it weren’t for these downloads, you would have had so much more. Certainly by the time Perfect Day had come out, there was a lot more of that. \n\nPEOPLE: You have three kids now. What do they think of your career as a pop star? \n\nHOKU: They’ve known about it since around elementary school [with] other people at their school, the moms, putting it together. So, it’s been a part of their lives in theory, but there wasn’t really an opportunity for them to really understand what it was like or really wrap their head around it. But then when I got to do this Elle World event, I took them all with me, and they got to see me in my pop-star mode performing my songs. That was a really cool moment for me and for us to be able to share that. I think my kids all appreciate my pop stuff, but I wouldn’t say that they listen to it a ton. If I had to pick one, they all love How Do I Feel (The Burrito Song). I don’t know why. Since they got to watch me perform, I noticed them listening to it a lot more often, but they prefer the songs that I just play around the house that I’ve been writing during their lifetime.\n\nPEOPLE: Between 2001 and 2018, were you focusing on raising your kids, or did you start another career?\n\nHOKU: No, I just kind of focused on raising my kids. I had the luxury of being able to do that, and I really wanted to just devote myself to that, so I was lucky that I got to do that.\n\nPEOPLE: In 2018, you released a Christian EP, as well as a single in 2020. What prompted you to step away from your faith, and when did that happen?\n\nHOKU: That Christian album was the last gasp of me trying to make sense of what I believed. When I became a Christian, it was in Hawaii and in this sort of hippie way. It was like Jesus is love, man. I really just resonated with that message of inclusivity. In Hawaii, there is a lot of inclusivity racially [and in terms of] sexual orientation, and I was lucky in California to be in spaces that still fostered that sense of inclusivity. But as I saw the church, the Big C church devolve into this place that didn’t at all feel centered around what had connected me to it in the first place, I started to step back and question some of the things that I had been believing over time. I think of my faith now as an expansion of what I used to believe. I believe in a higher power. I believe in the universe. I call it whatever I feel like in the moment. But I think that Christianity has become very much about labels [and] boxes. It stopped feeling authentic. I didn’t feel like I had to be so sure of everything. I’m okay with the gray area now. I still have so much love for people in my life that are still in that world, but I feel like I’ve evolved a little bit past that in my personal beliefs. It was definitely a journey, and at times very painful, because not everyone in my life was still my friend or still loving me once I made this decision. But ultimately I have to live authentically and be true to what I actually think and feel instead of trying to remain part of some club. \n\nPEOPLE: Back in the early 2000s, what was your favorite celebrity encounter you had?\n\nHOKU: There are so many lovely people. Rachael Leigh Cook and I would always run into each other at events, and every time we would see each other, we were like, Oh, hi. It was always nice to see her and catch up with her. I was obviously on the tour circuit that included a lot of the pop artists. So Mandy [Moore’s] manager and my manager were friends and then Jessica Simpson was dating Nick Lachey, so then I did the 98 Degrees special and we were in the same tour circuit. We were all very friendly, but I think there’s a little more competition there, but not in any overt way. Jennifer Love Hewitt and I had a great encounter, [and] Kobe Bryant. He was just so gracious. Lance Bass [and] Chris Kirkpatrick were very sweet. So, no ill will or bad blood. We were all just kind of out there doing our thing and happy to see each other.\n\nPEOPLE: Perfect Day has had so much longevity, and especially on TikTok there’s been celebs and fans making videos. Earlier this year, for instance, Hilary Duff made one when she was making her return to the stage, which is funny because I know a remix of Perfect Day was used in Lizzie McGuire. Is there a favorite fan or celeb TikTok video or edit that you have featuring the song?\n\nHOKU: I mean, definitely Hilary. That was just so cute, and I appreciated that homage as she was making her reentry back into music. It got the most legs, for sure, that I’ve seen.\n\nPEOPLE: Throughout the last two decades, is there a celebrity fan of Perfect Day that’s surprised you?\n\nHOKU: At the Elle World event, I found out that Bowen Yang and Matt Rogers were going to be hosting the panel, and I was so excited. I love them, and I love Bowen. I watched SNL when he was on it, and I just think he’s so funny. He’s Asian, so I was just like, Oh, it’s one of my people. And in the limo ride over or the Escalade ride over, I turned back to my family [and] was like, You guys, I think I might die if Bowen Yang knows who I am. That would be just the dream if he knew who I was. So, when I get there and we’re getting ready for the whole photo op, Bowen is right in front of me getting ready. [The person with me] was like, Do you want to meet Bowen? And I was like, Oh my God, yes. So then she [says], Oh, hey, this is Hoku. This is Bowen. And then his face was just blank. And I was like, Oh my God, okay, this is going to be so awkward. And then he goes, Sorry, what was your name? And I’m like, Hoku. Then his face lit up. He’s like, Hoku. Oh my God, you’re Hoku. He goes, You’re the person I was most excited to see. And I was like, You’re the person I was most excited to see. Anyway, we’re friends now. He’s basically my bestie. Then Matt was so sweet. That was a really cool moment. It was [also] fun to talk to Reese [Witherspoon] again because we’d spent a day in London together shooting this music video. She was just so excited that I was there and clearly such a fan of the song and so proud that it was connected to Elle and everything. There’s a video of her while I was performing, singing along on Perfect Day. She’s really championed it. Over the years, she’s done videos with Perfect Day in it. I’m just really grateful that she’s embraced my connection to it as well. \n\nPEOPLE: This year Bowen and Matt performed Only Hope with Mandy Moore at the Las Culturistas Awards, which is incredible. What if they did something similar for Perfect Day with you?\n\nHOKU: Oh my God, that would be amazing. Let’s just both put that out in the universe. \n\nPEOPLE: I’ve heard you’re back in the recording studio. Can you tell me what you’ve been working on?\n\nHOKU: I’m putting together an album based on a bunch of songs that I think would really be good for [it]. There’s stuff that I would like to have out in the world. Any interaction I have on social media, it’s like, When’s the comeback? When’s the new music? And there were a lot of years where I wasn’t really writing songs that would feel like they fit into the Hoku universe. Writing is how I process things and get things out of my body, and so, for a long time there were songs that were me just trying to process who I was after being a pop star was over, and then who I was as a mom. And for a long time, it was who I was in my faith before I stepped away from that. The timing is really perfect because over the last many years I’ve been in this really joyful, open-hearted state. My kids are in their teens and pre-teens. We’ve had a lot of fun. They’re great kids, and there’s a little bit of that sense of being able to step back and just enjoy your handiwork. I was already gearing up [for new music] before I was reached out to for the Elle World event. I was like, Oh my God, this is perfect timing. Because I was already getting ready to, in my own way, think of how I was going to relaunch, and this just gave me a huge springboard. \n\nPEOPLE: Are you signed to a label at this point?\n\nHOKU: No, I’m not signed to a label at this point. I was kind of trying to see how much I could do on my own. My label experience wasn’t great. I know things are much different now, but I haven’t really pursued that yet. I’d imagine at a certain point that might be necessary, but there’s a lot that you can do now without a label. It’s something I’m open to but haven’t begun to pursue. \n\nPEOPLE: Have you been asked — or would you — create a song for the TV show Elle?\n\nHOKU: I’d be open to any and everything like that. I think I hid for a lot of years and just enjoyed my anonymity, enjoyed the peace I was able to give my kids, but we’re all good now. Now I feel more freed up energetically to put all of that towards getting back into spreading joy to the world through my music and bringing some of that joy and nostalgia back. I’m doing songwriting stuff behind the scenes. I’ve been doing that a little bit over the years and stuff, so that’s already something I’m definitely in. It would just be fun. \n\nPEOPLE: Do you have plans to tour in the future?\n\nHOKU: I would love to tour. I’d be super down to do that. Bring it on.

 






