The pink and blue beverage will land on menus Saturday, Aug. 15.The much-anticipated return of Starbucks’ Unicorn Frappuccino is almost upon us. The coffee giant revealed last month that the blended pink and blue creation would be back on menus for just one magical weekend, beginning on Aug. 15. PEOPLE got an early taste of the colorful beverage, which Starbucks says features the original recipe from 2017 — the year it gained viral fame. The fan-favorite sweet and tart blend of creamy mango flavors, tangy blue drizzle, whipped cream, and pink and blue topping is back exactly as remembered, the company said in a release shared with PEOPLE. A swirl of the cup reveals color-changing enchantment and a transformation of flavors. For fans who missed the combination of tropical sweetness and a sour-candy kick, the creamy drink likely won’t disappoint. The bold fruity flavors and striking swirls reminded us of why it became a social media sensation nearly a decade ago. The Unicorn Frappuccino was served at Coachella Music Festival this past April, sparking nostalgia for the color-changing concoction. Later this month, Starbucks will bring back the Pumpkin Spice Latte as part of its fall menu. The pumpkin lineup, available starting Aug. 25, also includes a new Iced Pumpkin Cream Shaken Espresso, Pumpkin Spice Chai and Iced Pumpkin Cream Matcha. The Pumpkin Cream Cold Brew, Iced Pumpkin Cream Chai and Pumpkin Spice Frappuccino will be making a comeback. This year’s autumn offerings also include pecan drinks, banana bread-inspired drinks and a new Chaider item that combines chai and cider flavors. Starbucks describes Chaider as a cozy twist on chai for fall with flavors of cinnamon and sweet spice. The drink can be ordered hot or iced. The Pecan Cortado, Iced Pecan Crunch Latte and Pecan Crunch Latte, with a signature combination of nutty flavors, rich brown-buttery notes and baking spices, will all return to coffeehouses. Banana is having a moment and it’s joining the Starbucks menu, Starbucks said in a press release shared with PEOPLE. As banana flavors continue popping up everywhere, Starbucks is expanding its banana-inspired lineup with two new beverages inspired by freshly baked banana bread. The new Iced Banana Bread Latte and Iced Banana Bread Chai feature banana, cinnamon and brown sugar flavors to create dessert-like notes reminiscent of warm baked treats, Starbucks said, adding that they’ll be available past the season.

