Delta crew members shut off in-flight Wi-Fi mid-flight after discovering a rogue network allegedly named Delta Wifi Fast on a flight from Las Vegas. Authorities are investigating a potential cybersecurity incident that occurred during a Delta Air Lines flight after an unauthorized Wi-Fi network appeared on board. A Delta Air Lines spokesperson tells PEOPLE the company is investigating flight 591, which flew from Las Vegas to Atlanta on Monday, Aug. 10. The company says initial findings point to an unauthorized Wi-Fi network, which was not provided, operated or supplied by Delta, that appeared for a short time during the flight. According to Airframes.io, a community-driven open aviation data network, pilots sent a text-based message to air traffic control claiming a passenger created a scam Wifi called Delta Wifi Fast. They added: We believe they are trying to scam the [other passengers.]. In response, the cabin crew deactivated the aircraft’s Wi-Fi functionality for approximately 30 minutes, Delta reports. The safety of the flight was never in question and no aircraft operating systems were affected, Delta’s statement addressing the incident says. The spokesperson added there was no hack of any Delta system, including the in-flight Wi-Fi. We will partner with federal law enforcement and aviation regulators to ensure the incident is thoroughly investigated. A spokesperson for the Federal Aviation Administration said the department is aware and looking into the report, but notes that a breach of an onboard Wi-Fi system would not affect an airplane’s critical flight-safety systems. The FBI National Press Office tells PEOPLE it is aware of the reports and is in contact with local and corporate partners on the matter. However, no additional information was available at this time. In its message shared with PEOPLE, Delta Air Lines pointed out that large cybersecurity conferences were held in Las Vegas this past weekend. The events included DEF CON, an annual hacker convention, which took place from Aug. 6 to 9. Experts have previously warned about evil twin attacks, in which someone creates a fraudulent access point that mimics a legitimate Wi-Fi network. When victims connect to the system, hackers can then use tools to intercept information, steal data or otherwise exploit the device.  