Lovato opened up about her husband, Jutes, at the premiere of ‘Camp Rock 3’ in Burbank, Calif. on Monday, August 10. Demi Lovato is reflecting on the secret to her happy marriage! While attending the premiere of Camp Rock 3 at the Walt Disney Studio lot in Burbank, Calif., on Monday, Aug. 10, Lovato — who is reprising her role of Mitchie Torres, as well as acting as executive producer alongside the Jonas Brothers, in the upcoming film — spoke to PEOPLE about her recent one-year anniversary. Lovato, 33, who tied the knot with Jordan Jutes Lutes, 35, on May 25, 2025, insisted that communication was the biggest and the most important thing in a relationship. When you’re able to communicate with each other what you need, what you want, it creates a safe space for the two of you to share your feelings with one another, Lovato tells PEOPLE. My love for Jordan grows every single day, and I’ve never been so happy in my life. So I think communication is a big part of that, the star adds. Lovato and Lutes wed last May in a romantic California ceremony, according to Vogue, with the outlet also noting that the actress wore a custom pearl white Vivienne Westwood gown with a corset bodice and a cathedral-style tulle veil. When I was thinking about [what dress style I wanted], I often found myself coming back to Vivienne’s designs — specifically how the silhouettes really complement the curves in your body, and her use of corsets, Lovato told Vogue. Ahead of their big day, Lovato expressed her excitement to marry Lutes via a sweet Valentine’s Day post shared on Feb. 14 of that year. Jordan, I cannot WAIT to marry you!! The past 3 years have been the best 3 years of my life and I have you to thank for that, Lovato wrote at the time. I’m obsessed with your heart, your love and your light. I can’t wait to grow old with you and start a family together. Lutes and Lovato first went public with their romance in August 2022, with a source telling PEOPLE at the time that their relationship was really happy and healthy. Lutes then popped the question in a personal and intimate proposal in Los Angeles on Dec. 16, 2023, PEOPLE previously confirmed exclusively. In September 2024, Lovato told PEOPLE she’d waited [her] whole life for Lutes. It’s very grounding to have a partner that is so supportive, so loving, so caring. It’s very easy to stay centered with him because I love him so much and he treats me so amazing, she added of the singer. Camp Rock 3 premieres Aug. 13 on Disney Channel and will be streaming the next day on Disney+.





